packages/semantic-search/README.md, before:

# @op1/semantic-search

Semantic code search plugin for OpenCode - natural language to code search with embeddings.

## Features

- **Natural Language Search** - Find code using plain English queries
- **Code Similarity** - Find code patterns similar to a given snippet
- **Auto-Refresh on Query** - Automatically detects and reindexes changed files
- **Local Embeddings** - Transformers.js support (no API key required)
- **Incremental Indexing** - Merkle tree cache for efficient change detection

## Installation

```bash
bun add @op1/semantic-search
```

## Configuration

```json
{
  "plugin": ["@op1/semantic-search"]
}
```

## Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `search_semantic` | Search code using natural language |
| `find_similar` | Find code similar to a snippet or location |
| `semantic_status` | Get index status |
| `semantic_reindex` | Rebuild or update the index |

## Auto-Refresh (v0.3.0+)

Index automatically checks for file changes before each query - no manual reindex needed after git pull.

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `autoRefresh` | `true` | Enable on-query freshness check |
| `autoRefreshCooldownMs` | `30000` | 30s between checks |
| `autoRefreshMaxFiles` | `10000` | Skip for massive repos |

## Embedding Providers

| Provider | API Key | Notes |
|----------|---------|-------|
| Transformers.js | No | Local, preferred |
| OpenAI | Yes | Cloud fallback |

## License

MIT

Commit message:

feat(install): integrate code-intel, deprecate semantic-search and code-graph — update all templates, add code-intel-guide skill

packages/semantic-search/README.md, after:

# @op1/semantic-search

> **DEPRECATED**: This package is superseded by [`@op1/code-intel`](../code-intel/). The `smart_query` tool in code-intel provides hybrid vector + BM25 retrieval with graph expansion, which is strictly superior to pure vector search. Migrate by replacing `@op1/semantic-search` with `@op1/code-intel` in your `opencode.json` plugin list.
>
> **Migration:**
> | Old Tool | New Tool | Notes |
> |----------|----------|-------|
> | `search_semantic` | `smart_query` | Hybrid search with better recall |
> | `find_similar` | `smart_query` | Use with code snippet as query |
> | `semantic_status` | `code_intel_status` | Richer stats |
> | `semantic_reindex` | `code_intel_rebuild` / `code_intel_refresh` | Full or incremental |

---

Semantic code search plugin for OpenCode - natural language to code search with embeddings.

## Features

- **Natural Language Search** - Find code using plain English queries
- **Code Similarity** - Find code patterns similar to a given snippet
- **Auto-Refresh on Query** - Automatically detects and reindexes changed files
- **Local Embeddings** - Transformers.js support (no API key required)
- **Incremental Indexing** - Merkle tree cache for efficient change detection

## Installation

```bash
bun add @op1/semantic-search
```

## Configuration

```json
{
  "plugin": ["@op1/semantic-search"]
}
```

## Tools

| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `search_semantic` | Search code using natural language |
| `find_similar` | Find code similar to a snippet or location |
| `semantic_status` | Get index status |
| `semantic_reindex` | Rebuild or update the index |

## Auto-Refresh (v0.3.0+)

Index automatically checks for file changes before each query - no manual reindex needed after git pull.

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `autoRefresh` | `true` | Enable on-query freshness check |
| `autoRefreshCooldownMs` | `30000` | 30s between checks |
| `autoRefreshMaxFiles` | `10000` | Skip for massive repos |

## Embedding Providers

| Provider | API Key | Notes |
|----------|---------|-------|
| Transformers.js | No | Local, preferred |
| OpenAI | Yes | Cloud fallback |

## License

MIT
